website/integrations: add espoCRM (#11622)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/services/espoCRM/index.md

---

> title: Integrate with espoCRM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Integrate with EspoCRM
```

> sidebar_label: espoCRM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: EspoCRM
```

---

> # espoCRM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# EspoCRM
```

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

> ## What is espoCRM?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is EspoCRM?
```

> > EspoCRM is a web application that allows users to see, enter and evaluate all your company relationships regardless of the type. People, companies, projects or opportunities — all in an easy and intuitive interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> EspoCRM is a CRM (customer relationship management) web application that allows users to store, visualize, and analyze their company's business-related relationships such as opportunities, people, businesses, and projects. 
```

>
> -- https://www.espocrm.com/

:::warning
This guide does _not_ cover Team Mapping. Please refer to espoCRM's [documentation](https://docs.espocrm.com/administration/oidc/#team-mapping).
:::

## Preparation

The following placeholders will be used:

-   `crm.company` is the FQDN of the espoCRM install. 
-   `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik install.
- `_SLUG_` is the slug you choose upon application create in authentik.

> 

Author: Added a proper "authentik configuration" section.

Create an application in authentik and note the slug you choose, as this will be used later (`_SLUG_`).
In the Admin Interface, go to **Applications** -> **Providers**. Create a **OAuth2/OpenID** provider with the following parameters:

> 

Reviewer: You can now use the wizard to create both an application and provider at the same time... I'd suggest you rewrite lines 28 and 29 to reflect that. Here's a suggestion:
+++++++++++++++++
Log into authentik as an admin, and navigate to **Applications --> Applications**.

Click **Create with Wizard**. (Alternatively, use our legacy process and click **Create**. The legacy process requires that the application and its authentication provider be configured separately.)

In the New application wizard, define the application details, and then define the provider with the following parameters:

Author: Great suggestion, thank you for reviewing!! I will work on this shortly. 

Also, I recently discovered batch commits for suggestions. I think I might have undid one of my previous commits (from one of your suggestions). I can't figure out how to fix it/apply your suggestion again. 

sorry in advance if it messed anything up in the background

Author: I just added your suggestions!

- **Authorization Flow**: `default-provider-authorization-explicit-consent (Authorize Application)`
- **Client Type**: `Confidential`
- **Redirect URIs/Origins**: `https://_crm.company_/oauth-callback.php`
- **Scopes**: OpenID, Email, Profile, Proxy outpost

> - **Subject Mode**: `Based on the User's username` (**OR** your preferred method; I personally use the same username in authentik and espoCRM)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Subject Mode**: `Based on the User's username` (**OR** your preferred method; you can use the same username in authentik and EspoCRM)
```

- **Signing Key**: Select any available key

Note the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` values. 

> ## espoCRM configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## EspoCRM configuration
```

### Access the OIDC auth
1. Login to your admin user at `crm.company`.

2. In EspoCRM at Administration > Authentication, select the OIDC method. Below, on the same form, a OIDC panel will appear.

### Configure the OIDC auth
1. Configure the following variables:
- **Client ID**: enter the `Client ID` from authentik
- **Client Secret**: enter the `Client Secret` from authentik 
- **Authorization Redirect URI**: `https://_crm.company_/oauth-callback.php`

> - **Fallback Login**: _Select this option if you want espoCRM's login as fallback._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fallback Login**: _Select this option if you want EspoCRM's login as fallback._
```

- **Authorization Flow**: `default-provider-authorization-explicit-consent (Authorize Application)`
- **Client Type**: `Confidential`
- **Redirect URIs/Origins**: `https://_crm.company_/oauth-callback.php`
- **Scopes**: OpenID, Email, Profile, Proxy outpost
- **Subject Mode**: `Based on the User's username` (**OR** your preferred method; you can use the same username in authentik and EspoCRM)
- **Signing Key**: Select any available key

Note the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` values. 

## EspoCRM configuration
### Access the OIDC auth
1. Login to your admin user at `crm.company`.

2. In EspoCRM at Administration > Authentication, select the OIDC method. Below, on the same form, a OIDC panel will appear.

### Configure the OIDC auth
1. Configure the following variables:
- **Client ID**: enter the `Client ID` from authentik
- **Client Secret**: enter the `Client Secret` from authentik 
- **Authorization Redirect URI**: `https://_crm.company_/oauth-callback.php`
- **Fallback Login**: _Select this option if you want EspoCRM's login as fallback._
- **Allow OIDC login for admin users**: _Select this option if you want EspoCRM's admin users to be able to log in via OIDC._

>     _The following values I listed as slugs for clarity. I included an example for the first variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    _The following values are listed as slugs for clarity. An example for the first variable is included.
```

> The full URLs can also be found on the provider's page in authentik's UI._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also view the full URLs on the provider's page in authentik's Admin interface.
```

- **Authorization Endpoint**: `/application/o/authorize/`
    - (e.g. `https://_crm.company_/application/o/authorize/`)
- **Token Endpoint**: `/application/o/token/`
- **JSON Web Key Set Endpoint**: `/application/o/_SLUG_/jwks/`
- **Logout URL**: `application/o/_SLUG_/end-session/`

> ### Confirm the configuration 

Reviewer: Thank so much for adding this section! It's always great to have a confirmation/validation section.

1. Select the `Save` option.

> 2. Access `crm.company` in a private browser, and select `Sign In.`

Reviewer: I'm assuming that "company" in this URL supposed to be a variable for the name of the user's actual company? If Yes, let's make it a little more clear with something like `crm.<company-name>`.

Author: Thank you for pointing this out. I plan to change the domain to `<your_company>` to make it more clear to readers, as well as specifically stating to access their EspoCRM instance in that step.
